---
layout: page
title: "What PyNam did next"
date: 2015-12-06
excerpt: "Almost no sooner than Python Namibia 2015 was over, its members were sharing Python with a wider audience."
gallery:
    - image_url: pynam.jpg
      caption: The formation of PyNam
    - image_url: pynam-school-pupils.jpg
      caption: Introducing school pupils to Python
    - image_url: pynam-school-team.jpg
      caption: The PyNam school team
    - image_url: pynam_logo_blue.png
      caption: The PyNam school team

---
**PyNam** , the Python Namibia society, was formed on the last day of the Python Namibia conference
in February 2015. The aim of PyNam is to *support and encourage the learning and adoption of Python
in Namibia*.

{% include gallery %}

Inspired by the conference, just the following month student members of PyNam - Jessica Upani,  Kandjavera, Muheue, Isaac Otim, Paulus, Mate and others - decided that they should share some of what they had learned with school pupils in Windhoek.

Led by Jessica (PyNam's Chair, and one of the organisers of this PyCon), who approached a number of high schools in the city with a proposal to visit and speak, the PyNam members planned a day of activities suited to senior pupils (grades 11 and 12) who had no programming experience.

They visited **Academia High School** and **Windhoek Technical High School**, where they talked about programming and careers in and found a way to give a hall-full of pupils hands-on experience, designing and implementing a small Python program.

<blockquote>
  <p>It was not a very smooth ride. At first, we found that the teachers didn't really believe in us; in fact they thought it was a waste of time, and of all the schools we approached, only two agreed to the proposal.</p>
  <p>But, the learners where very keen on the whole event, and showed up in many numbers, and had a lot of questions for us. They were very engaged and interested.</p>
  <p>After the event, we had a much more positive response from the teachers than we did initially.</p>
  <p>We want to run more events like this, where they can have fun programming, and understand its power because it was clear that they really didn't know what it was all about.</p>
  <p>Despite the difficulties we had, I feel that we did well. We just need to do it more often and hopefully bring together pupils from different schools.</p>
  <cite>Jessica Upani, Chair of PyNam</cite>
</blockquote>

PyNam's members are key organisers of PyCon Namibia 2016 - so come to PyCon in Windhoek, and you'll get a chance to meet Jessica and other inspriring members of Namibia's growing Python community, and help support their next endeavours.